# MACHINE LEARNING PROJECT: ASTEROIDS CLASSIFICATION
### Group 11: Alessandro Scicluna, Ignazio Leonardo Scarpelli, Lorenzo Carucci

## Introduction
In this project, the most famous space program agency in the world gave us the very important task of gaining insights on the characteristics of some NEO (Near Earth Objects) which can potentially hit the Earth. To do so, the agency provided us with a dataset which includes more than four thousand different NEOs observed and analysed together with their respective data. Our goal is to build a model that can predict, following some patterns in the data, if an asteroyd could be or not dangerous for ourself.  

## Methods
Before starting the EDA, since we are not space's experts, we took some time to better understand the task's arguments and the dataset's features. As an example, to understand the "Jupiter Tisserand Invariant" variable, and if it would be useful for our purpose, we spent some time surfing the internet to deepen our knowledge on the argument. The same could be said for concepts like Epoch Date and other measur units such as Astronomical Units. Then, to simplify our analysis, we decided to get rid of some redundant features, such as the same distances displayed in different measure units (miles, feet or km/h, for example), using meters as our universal measure unit for NEOs' diameters, km/s for the velocity and km for the distance between NEOs and Earth. We deleted variables, such as Equinox and Orbiting Body, which contained only one value too (J2000 for "Equinox" and Earth for "Orbiting Body"). After this, we performed some basic data cleanign tasks like looking for and dropping duplicates and null value and, although we didn't find any of them, after a deeper research, we found out that actually there were 751 duplicates. This is probably because the dataset has been updated several times and some several times and some duplicates are probably remained in the dataset.                  
